# Sequencing by Fluorescence In-Situ Hybridization (seqFISH)    

seqFISH technology allows multiplex in situ imaging of mRNA within cells using barcoding and hybridization of probes labeled with as few as 3 fluorescent dyes. seqFISH+ is a highly-multiplexed version of seqFISH that can resolve the identities and subcellular localization of thousands of gene transcripts by generating dozens of pseudocolors from as few as 3 standard fluorescent dyes. Pseudocolors serve as proxies for hybridization-step-order. The strategy is to first hybridize mRNA barcode probes to each mRNA in situ. Each mRNA barcode probe has 4 barcode regions numbered I-IV. Decoding of each barcode region is performed through sequential hybridization and imaging of 60 readout-probes (_3 dye-channels * 20 probes per channel_) distinguished from one another by assigned pseudocolors. Readout-probes are hybridized and imaged one probe at a time such that each of the 20 readout-probes per detection channel can then be assigned a unique pseudocolor (_a number from 1-20_) reflecting the hybridization-step order.  The complete barcode for each mRNA is deduced from the sequence of pseudocolor numbers for regions I-III (_region IV is an additional round used for error correction_). A total of 8,000 (20 * 20 * 20) mRNA barcodes _per dye-channel_ allows a grand total of 24,000 unique mRNA barcodes to be interrogated. The composite image reveals both the identities and subcellular localization of up to 24,000 mRNA molecules.
